she's here to find out if she has what
it takes to make it as one of the most
sought-after dogs in the country is she
fit healthy intelligent and above all
the right character to be a guide dog
for the blind
the first test is to see how she'll
respond to an unfamiliar slightly scary
sound
she should react but not panic the most
crucial trait is loyalty looking to an
odor at all times and in all situations
and it seems like she's got what it
takes
karen maginnis you might wonder if your
dog could qualify to be a guide dog you
can get an idea by observing them
research has shown that dogs are left or
right poured your left footer mics hey
is your left footer no you can test this
by watching closely to see which pour
they step off with I think that was a
right foot started yeah yeah didn't see
your left handed okay let's go I think
we've proven there in that unbiased test
that it was his right foot that came
forward preliminary research has shown
that right poor dogs are statistically
more likely to pass their guide dog test
there's another clue to the chances of
them passing in the swirls of hair on
your dog and it all depends which way
they turn clockwise anti-clockwise if
your dog is right poor Dan the swirl
goes anti-clockwise then your dog is
more likely to be calm confident and
self-assured exactly the traits that a
guide dog needs a dog you could be a
blind dog for the guides and if your dog
is left bored
be prepared for some creative solutions
to your problems